[MUSIC]
Today, we use many technologies to help us
get things done, both at home and at work.
Many of us have devices and
applications that remind us to be more
active if we've been sitting too long, or
help us keep track of shopping lists so
we don't forget to get the things we need.
We've integrated these tools into our
lives to keep us healthy and on track
to complete the things we need to get done.
Just as these tools help manage our
personal lives there are tools to help you
manage projects at work.
In this video, you'll learn
about tools and techniques for
project planning integration.
Let's start by defining what
project planning tools are.
Project planning tools are software
applications that assist in
the organization, management, and
tracking of projects and tasks.
Project planning tools streamline and
manage tasks, enhance team collaboration,
and improve the team's visibility into and
tracking of a project's progress.
Using these tools effectively helps team
members complete projects on time and
within scope.
Let's explore some examples
of these tools and
how they help guide
a project in more detail,
starting with Jira. Jira is a powerful
project planning and issue-tracking tool.
Users can create tasks,
assign them to team members,
discuss issues with the team, and
run robust reports on project status.
Some key advantages to using Jira come
from its ability to work with other
applications.
By using Jira integrations,
teams can manage tasks directly
from the tools they're already using
without having to switch between tools.
Software developers can integrate Jira
into Visual Studio Code to manage work
items right from the tool.
Similarly, Jira integrates with GitHub,
a tool teams use to
manage their source code.
By using Jira and GitHub, teams can
easily link issues and make requests for
new code.
Jira also integrates with
the communication tools like Slack and
Microsoft Teams to track issues and
get notifications.
Jira can be an ideal tool for planning and
managing large and complex projects, but
if your project is smaller or
less complex,
other tools like Trello might
be better suited for it.
Trello is a user friendly project
management tool that uses boards, lists,
and cards to organize tasks.
Trello's card and board system makes
it easy to visualize project tasks and
progress.
Similar to Jira, Trello integrates
with development environments so
teams can manage tasks without having
to switch between multiple tools.
Integration with tools like Slack and
GitHub enhance collaboration and
streamline the project's workflow.
For example, a new GitHub issue can
automatically create a new Trello card,
helping the team to track it visually.
Slack users can share Trello card updates,
comments, and notifications.
For teams that need more of Jira's power but
prefer Trello's usability,
Asana could be a good fit.
Asana is a versatile project management
tool that teams use to coordinate and
manage their work.
Like Jira and Trello, Asana's ability to
integrate with development environments
helps teams track tasks in
their existing workflow.
Integration with version control systems
like GitHub and communications tools like
Slack ensures that updates are
synchronized, keeping everyone informed.
Users can link GitHub commits, branches,
and pull requests to Asana tasks.
By linking Asana with Slack, users can
share it when a task has been created and
when it gets updated.
Asana can also be embedded
in Microsoft Teams so
users can manage Asana tasks in
their team without leaving the app.
Lets use a real-world example to further
illustrate how an organization would
integrate a project planning
tool with other tools they use.
Consider a company called TechFlow.
They start this process by choosing
a tool that fits their needs.
TechFlow needs robust tracking
functionality and extensive integration
options because its teams use many
different tools such as VS code,
GitHub, Slack, and Microsoft Teams.
After careful consideration,
TechFlow chooses Jira.
Next, they work to set
up the integrations.
They do this by connecting their accounts
from other tools, like GitHub, with Jira.
In addition, TechFlow will set up
communication between the tools to
sync issues and updates between Jira and
its other tools.
With their tools integrated with Jira,
the TechFlow team defines clear workflow
processes to ensure the integrated
tools are used effectively.
They define how tasks will be created,
assigned, and tracked.
As a specific example of this, the
TechFlow team will define a process where
all GitHub issues
are automatically logged in Jira,
assigned to the relevant team members,
and tracked until completion.
Then, TechFlow conducts training sessions
to familiarize the team with Jira and
its integration with tools like GitHub.
The training helps the team know how to
use the integrated tools effectively.
Finally, TechFlow implements a strategy
to regularly monitor its integrations and
adjust them as needed.
As an example, TechFlow will regularly
review its Jira-GitHub integration,
making adjustments to optimize
task tracking and collaboration.
By regularly monitoring the integration,
they can adjust
it as necessary to improve efficiency and
address any issues.
In this video, you learned about tools and
techniques for
project planning integration.
By integrating project planning
tools like Jira, Trello, and
Asana with development environments
like VS code and Atom, and
communication tools like
Microsoft Teams and Slack,
project teams can significantly
enhance their task management,
collaboration, and project tracking.
Using these tools will also help
to ensure smoother workflows and
successful project outcomes.
[MUSIC]